CLI Template maker for new and current projects that uses **NestJS**.

Used tecnologies:
- Commander
- Inquirer
- Hygen
- NEST CLI

# Commands
The commands that you can use are:

- Generate a new project:

  - Command can be one of this two options: 'n'|'new'.
  - Project name can be any name that uses only letters.
  - Package manager can be 'yarn'|'npm'.
```bash
npm start -- [Command] [project name] [package manager]
```

- Create a new resource in a existing project:

  - Command can be one of this two options: 'res'|'resource'.
  - Resource name can be any name that uses only letters.
  - Project name is the name of the project where you want to create the resource.
  - JSON is an optional parammeter if you want to have custom entities when generating the resource. An example is given below.
```bash
npm start -- [Command] [resource name] -p [project name] -j <JSON>
```

### example.json
```json
{
  "test": {
    "type": "number",
    "sqlType": "integer",
    "default": null,
    "annotations": {
      "exclude": false,
      "isString": true
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": "string",
    "sqlType": "varchar",
    "size": 256,
    "annotations": {
      "apiProperty": "required",
      "isNotEmpty": true
    }
  },
  "email": {
    "type": "string",
    "sqlType": "varchar",
    "size": 256,
    "default": "",
    "annotations": {
      "apiProperty": "optional"
    }
  },
  "final": {
    "type": "Date",
    "sqlType": "integer",
    "size": 256,
    "default": "",
    "annotations": {
      "apiProperty": "required",
      "exclude": true
    }
  }
}
```
- The only required parammeters are: type and sqlType.
- type can be: 'string'|'number'|'boolean'|'Date'|'object'
- apiProperty can be: 'required'|'optional'|'undocumented'
- default is the default path for the property, can be with "" to be considered a string or without if you want to put null.

# Improve
Here are the steps if you want to contribute or make a custom option for your own project:

1. Create a new folder inside the _templates folder with the name of what you want to create. Ex: controller.
2. Inside this new folder create another folder with the name of the command you want to execute. Ex: new, create, add, etc (it can be anything).
3. Now inside this folder create all the files you want to have a template / automatic generation. They have to end in: .ejs.ts
4. For a list of options, parammeters and more visit the official documentation of Hygen: http://www.hygen.io/docs/templates
5. Now that you have everything in a template you can now execute it directly with: hygen [name] [command] [options] or you can create a custom new command for the project. Continue reading the steps if you want to add it to the CLI.
6. Go to the file src/cli/index.ts and there create a new function with all the properties of the new command. To learn about the properties, options and more visit: https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander
7. Create a new file in src/ and make the logic that will be executed on calling the command.
8. Finally inside the src/cli folder create a file with the same name as step 7 and call there the function and check the properties and parammeters.
9. You are now done! Check if everything works with the same style of command as in new or resource at the start of the readme.

# Peculiarities
- There is a custom logger to print things via the CLI if you want to debug or show messages to the user, just call **Logger.**[type]
  - Where type is: info, warn, error, debug or trace
- To check if the properties of a class or enum are respected use the custom function **validateAndLogErrors**(class/enum, values)
- The code generated by the CLI is formated by prettier when it finishes generating, you can change the params or dissable it completely if you don't like it.
